en/command_line_options.md, before:

# Command Line Options

You can start *QGroundControl* with command line options. These are used to enable logging, run unit tests, and simulate different host environments for testing. 

## Starting QGroundControl with Options

You will need to open a command prompt or terminal, change directory to where **qgroundcontrol.exe** is stored, and then run it. This is shown below for each platform (using the `--logging:full` option):

Windows Command Prompt:
```bash
cd "\Program Files (x86)\qgroundcontrol"
qgroundcontrol --logging:full
```
OSX Terminal app (**Applications/Utilities**):
```bash
cd /Applications/qgroundcontrol.app/Contents/MacOS/
./qgroundcontrol --logging:full
```
Linux Terminal:
```bash
./qgroundcontrol-start.sh --logging:full
```

## Options
The options/command line arguments are listed in the table below. 

Option | Description
--- | ---
`--clear-settings` | Clears the app settings.
`--logging:full` | Turns on full logging. See [Console Logging](https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/en/SettingsView/console_logging.html#logging-from-the-command-line).
`--logging:full,LinkManagerVerboseLog,ParameterLoaderLog` | Turns on full logging and turns off the following listed comma-separated logging options.
`--logging:LinkManagerLog,PraameterLoaderLog` | Turns on the specified comma separated logging options
`--unittest:name` | Runs the specified unit test. Leave off `:name` to run all tests.
`--unittest-stress:name` | Runs the specified unit test 20 times in a row. Leave off :name to run all tests.
`--fake-mobile` | Simulates running on a mobile device.
`--test-high-dpi` | Simulates running *QGroundControl* on a high DPI device.

Commit message:

Clarify usage of unit tests -debug only

en/command_line_options.md, after:

# Command Line Options

You can start *QGroundControl* with command line options. These are used to enable logging, run unit tests, and simulate different host environments for testing. 

## Starting QGroundControl with Options

You will need to open a command prompt or terminal, change directory to where **qgroundcontrol.exe** is stored, and then run it. This is shown below for each platform (using the `--logging:full` option):

Windows Command Prompt:
```bash
cd "\Program Files (x86)\qgroundcontrol"
qgroundcontrol --logging:full
```
OSX Terminal app (**Applications/Utilities**):
```bash
cd /Applications/qgroundcontrol.app/Contents/MacOS/
./qgroundcontrol --logging:full
```
Linux Terminal:
```bash
./qgroundcontrol-start.sh --logging:full
```

## Options
The options/command line arguments are listed in the table below. 

Option | Description
--- | ---
`--clear-settings` | Clears the app settings (reverts *QGroundControl* back to default settings).
`--logging:full` | Turns on full logging. See [Console Logging](https://docs.qgroundcontrol.com/en/SettingsView/console_logging.html#logging-from-the-command-line).
`--logging:full,LinkManagerVerboseLog,ParameterLoaderLog` | Turns on full logging and turns off the following listed comma-separated logging options.
`--logging:LinkManagerLog,ParameterLoaderLog` | Turns on the specified comma separated logging options
`--unittest:name` | (Debug builds only) Runs the specified unit test. Leave off `:name` to run all tests. 
`--unittest-stress:name` | (Debug builds only) Runs the specified unit test 20 times in a row. Leave off :name to run all tests.
`--fake-mobile` | Simulates running on a mobile device.
`--test-high-dpi` | Simulates running *QGroundControl* on a high DPI device.


Notes:
* Unit tests are included in debug builds automatically (as part of *QGroundControl*). *QGroundControl* runs under the control of the unit test (it does not start normally).
