en/custom_build/upstream_merge.md, before:

# Keeping your custom build up to date

## Repository Setup

* Create a new repository from the main QGC repo. One way of achieving this in Github is by clicking "import a repository" when creating the very repo.
* You can now clone the above repo to do your work in and create pull requests from.
* In your clone create a remote called 'mavlink' which points back to the main QGC repo.
  ```
  git remote add mavlink https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol.git
  ```

## Upstream Merge

We call the process of updating your custom build to the latest QGC bits and 'Upstream Merge'. Here is an example of how to do it:

* First make sure your local master is up to date with your own repos master.
* Create a branch to make all the changes to:
  ```
  git checkout -b UpstreamMerge
  ```
* Pull in the latest bits from QGC:
  ```
  git pull mavlink master
  ```
  You'll get an editor to update merge comments.
  They are fine, just `:q` to exit.
* Now you need to update the resources in your custom build:
  ```
  cd custom
  python updateqrc.py
  ```
* Build it all to make sure there are no problems.
* You are now done.
  You can submit that as a Pull against your repo or however you want to get the changes into your main repo.

> **Note** This assume your custom build is based off of QGC master.
  If it is based off of a Stable branch just replace master with the stable branch name.

Commit message:

Added REASON for the approach

en/custom_build/upstream_merge.md, after:

# Keeping your custom build up to date

## Repository Setup

In order to develop a custom build you tend to need two repositories:
- A regular QGC repo that you can use to make needed changes to upstream QGC. 
- A repo for your custom build.

The easiest way would be to fork the repository twice, but that is not supported.

The approach below explains the *recommended* way to do this:
* Create a new repository from the main QGC repo (i.e. in Github you can do this by clicking *Import a repository* when creating the repo).
* You can now clone the above repo to do your work in and create pull requests from.
* In your clone create a remote called 'mavlink' that points back to the main QGC repo.
  ```
  git remote add mavlink https://github.com/mavlink/qgroundcontrol.git
  ```

> **Warning** You can also use just one repro containing your custom build to achieve the same thing. 
  If you use this approach be **very careful** when creating pulls to upstream QGC that you never include anything from your custom directory code!


## Upstream Merge

We call the process of updating your custom build to the latest QGC bits and 'Upstream Merge'. Here is an example of how to do it:

* First make sure your local master is up to date with your own repos master.
* Create a branch to make all the changes to:
  ```
  git checkout -b UpstreamMerge
  ```
* Pull in the latest bits from QGC:
  ```
  git pull mavlink master
  ```
  You'll get an editor to update merge comments.
  They are fine, just `:q` to exit.
* Now you need to update the resources in your custom build:
  ```
  cd custom
  python updateqrc.py
  ```
* Build it all to make sure there are no problems.
* You are now done.
  You can submit that as a Pull against your repo or however you want to get the changes into your main repo.

> **Note** This assume your custom build is based off of QGC master.
  If it is based off of a Stable branch just replace master with the stable branch name.
